REP-358: new Replicator Schema Translation Demo (#304)
confluentinc/examples: replicator-schema-translation/README.md

# Replicator Schema Translation Demo

## Overview

Confluent Replicator features the ability to translate entries from a source Schema Registry to a destination Schema Registry.

> This demo provides a docker-compose environment with source and destination Schema Registries in which Schemas will be translated. In this demo we will create an entry in the source Schema Registry and translate it to the destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This demo provides a docker-compose environment with source and destination Schema Registries in which schemas are translated. In this demo, you create an entry in the source Schema Registry and translate it to the destination.
```

> The scripts directory provides examples of the operations that must be performed to prepare for the translation as well as JSON Replicator configurations required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `scripts` directory provides examples of the operations that you must perform to prepare for the translation, as well as JSON Replicator configurations required.
```

> The scripts directory provides examples of the operations that must be performed to prepare for the translation as well as JSON Replicator configurations required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `scripts` directory provides examples of the operations that you must perform to prepare for the translation, as well as JSON Replicator configurations required.
```

## Prerequisites

These demos require the following tools:

* docker-compose

> These demos are memory intensive and Docker must be tuned accordingly. In Docker's advanced settings, increase the memory dedicated to Docker to at least 8GB (default is 2GB).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These demos are memory intensive and Docker must be tuned accordingly. In Docker's advanced settings, increase the memory dedicated to Docker to at least 8GB (the default is 2GB).
```

## Components

In addition to Confluent Replicator, the environment contains:

> * A single node source cluster containing srcKafka1, in production at least 3 nodes are recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A single node source cluster containing `srcKafka1`. In production, at least 3 nodes are recommended.
```

> * A single node destination cluster containing destKafka1, in production at least 3 nodes are recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A single node destination cluster containing `destKafka1`. In production, at least 3 nodes are recommended.
```

> * A single node Schema Registry cluster containing srcSchemaregistry, in production a master/standby configuration is recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A single node Schema Registry cluster containing `srcSchemaregistry`. In production, a master/standby configuration is recommended.
```

> * A single node Schema Registry cluster containing destSchemaregistry, in production a master/standby configuration is recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A single node Schema Registry cluster containing `destSchemaregistry`. In production, a master/standby configuration is recommended.
```

> * A single Connect worker that will run replicator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A single Connect worker that runs Replicator.
```

> * A source client container (kafkaClient) that creates a source topic and provides test data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A source client container (`kafkaClient`) that creates a source topic and provides test data.
```

In all containers, minimal non-replicator configuration is supplied.

## Setup and verifying the environments

The demo performs the following steps:

> 1. Creation of a subject in the source Schema Registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a subject in the source Schema Registry.
```

> 2. Preparation for Schema translation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Prepare for schema translation.
```

> 3. Execution of Replicator to perform migration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Execute Replicator to perform migration.
```

> 4. Post translation Schema registry configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Post-translation Schema Registry configuration. 
```

### Step 1: 

This step is completed automatically when the environment is started. 

Run:
  ```
  docker-compose up -d
  ```

Verify the source Schema Registry:
  ```
  curl http://localhost:8085/subjects
  ```
You should see the following:
  ```
  ["testTopic-value"]
  ```

Verify the destination Schema Registry:
  ```
  curl http://localhost:8086/subjects
  ```
You should see the following:
  ```
  []
  ```

> Note: the kafkaClient container must complete and exit 0 before verification  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: The `kafkaClient` container must complete and `exit 0` before verification.
```

### Step 2: 

> To prepare for Schema translation the source cluster must be put in "READONLY" mode and the destination in "IMPORT" mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prepare for schema translation, you must put the source cluster in "READONLY" mode and the destination cluster in "IMPORT" mode.
```

Run:
  ```
  docker-compose exec connect /etc/kafka/scripts/set_sr_modes_pre_translation.sh
  ```

Verify: 

> This should produce:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your output should resemble:
```

  ```
  {"mode":"READONLY"}{"mode":"IMPORT"}
  ```
### Step 3: 

> Now we submit Replicator to perform the translation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Submit Replicator to perform the translation.
```

Run:
  ```
  docker-compose exec connect /etc/kafka/scripts/submit_replicator.sh
  ```

Verify: 

> This should produce:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your output should resemble:
```

  ```
  {"name":"testReplicator","config":{"connector.class":"io.confluent.connect.replicator.ReplicatorSourceConnector","topic.whitelist":"_schemas","topic.rename.format":"${topic}.replica","key.converter":"io.confluent.connect.replicator.util.ByteArrayConverter","value.converter":"io.confluent.connect.replicator.util.ByteArrayConverter","src.kafka.bootstrap.servers":"srcKafka1:10091","dest.kafka.bootstrap.servers":"destKafka1:11091","tasks.max":"1","confluent.topic.replication.factor":"1","schema.subject.translator.class":"io.confluent.connect.replicator.schemas.DefaultSubjectTranslator","schema.registry.topic":"_schemas","schema.registry.url":"http://destSchemaregistry:8086","name":"testReplicator"},"tasks":[],"type":"source"}
  ```

> Note: If replicator is submitted before the Connect worker is ready then the message below will be printed. The script will automatically retry until successful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: If replicator is submitted before the Connect worker is ready, the following message is printed. The script automatically retries until successful.
```

  ```
  curl: (22) The requested URL returned error: 404 Not Found
  Failed to submit replicator to Connect. This could be because the Connect worker is not yet started. Will retry in 10 seconds
  ```

### Step 4: 

First verify the translation. 
  ```
  curl http://localhost:8086/subjects
  ```

> You should see the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your output should resemble:
```

  ```
  ["testTopic.replica-value"]
  ```

> Note: Replicator may not immediately translate the Schema so this verification should be retired for up to 60 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Replicator may not translate the schema immediately, so this verification should be retried for up to 60 seconds.
```

Then run:
  ```
  docker-compose exec connect /etc/kafka/scripts/set_sr_modes_post_translation.sh
  ```
Verify: 

> This should produce:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your output should resemble:
```

The `scripts` directory provides examples of the operations that you must perform to prepare for the translation, as well as JSON Replicator configurations required.

The demo performs the following migration steps:

1. Create a subject in the source Schema Registry.
2. Prepare for schema translation.
3. Execute Replicator to perform migration.
4. Post-translation Schema Registry configuration. 

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer 2: For consideration: move Prereqs to the docs (not in the README) to simplify the README

This demo has been validated with:

-  Docker 19.03.2
-  Docker-compose 1.24.1
-  Java version 1.8.0_162
-  MacOS 10.12

These demos are memory intensive and Docker must be tuned accordingly. In Docker's advanced settings, increase the memory dedicated to Docker to at least 8GB (the default is 2GB).

# Running the demo

> You can find the documentation for running this demo at [https://docs.confluent.io/current/tutorials/examples/ccloud/docs/index.html](https://docs.confluent.io/current/tutorials/examples/replicator-schema-translation/docs/index.html)

Reviewer 2: Is there an error in the link `https://docs.confluent.io/current/tutorials/examples/ccloud/docs/index.html`?
